So what do we need to do?
Well, now that we have that,
we need to show something here, somewhere.
Saying, hey, use Touch ID or
use your passkey or
however you wanna say something there.
Unfortunately, that UX part
is still in discussion.
We don't have,
this is the UX you have to use.
I think that we are still finding the best
user experience for web authentication.
I think that we will go to the index.html
then we'll read out the last change for
today in the html.
So in the login form here, we already have
an empty section here for webauthn.
So here we can add a link,
href with nothing, something like that.
So it will pass validation.
We will say that this is a navlink,
you will see why later we use that.
And well, maybe navlink here is used
by the router to do things but anyway.
I will say that onclick,
I wanna call Auth.webAuthnLogin.
So we wanna log in with
Web Authentication.
And just because I'm here,
I'm going to prevent default over event.
I know it feels a little dirty but
why I'm doing this?
Because, It's a link and the link,
if I have this hash,
it will change a little bit the URL.
So it will call the router.
We wanna do that, okay?
So just for that.
And we can say login with WebAuthn or
with passkey or whatever, okay?
This is the part that is still
tricky to get right, okay?
So we're going to log in
the user with those options.
So we need to write the code for
Auth.webAuthnLogin within our Auth option,
okay?
So it's going to be an async function and
actually I mean,
the process will be kind of
similar to the previous one.
But instead of calling the APIs for
registration, we will call the APIs for
authentication, okay?
Remember that we have these two flows and
both are pretty similar.
So what we need,
I need to get the email from the form
because these APIs will need the email.
To log in the user we need the email
because we are going to create options
at the station on everything with
the email address of that user.
It can be an ID,
any way to identify the user will work.
So I'm going to get an element
by ID from the login, okay?
And first I need to get
the option from the server.
So the first step in the flow.
So I'm going to await for
API.webAuthn.logInOptions
that one receives the email,
which is okay.
The next step is to call the API.
So I'm going to now login or
authenticate the API doesn't
talk about login,
it talks about authentication, okay?
But because we were talking about
login I'm continuing that wording.
So I'm going to talk with my
SimpleWebAuthnBrowser library and
I'm going to startAuthentication,
not registration but authentication.
Pass in the options received
by the server, by our backend.
By the way,
it's known as the WebAuthn server.
So our backend is now a WebAuthn server.
It's possible to separate your
WebAuthn server from your backend.
It's possible to have a completely
separate WebAuthn server, okay?
That happens if you have
really large amount of users
validating at the same time,
you can actually separate that.
But normally, it will be the same.
And then we need to verify.
So I'm going to wait for
the verification response from my API.
We don't need to pass any other arguments.
Those arguments are okay.
So we're going to verify the login result
from the API, something like that.
The only that you need is the email,
of course because it needs the email and
the data.
I think that's okay.
So I tell you that will tell us if
the login was successful or not.
So this is our third way of login.
We have login with username and password,
login with Google and
this is log in webAuthn.
So I will check if I'm sending
an ok from the server.
And if I'm sending an ok,
I can call post login as with
the other login methods,
it needs a response.
We can pass that response
that we receive and a user.
And we on the response, we will check
that, let me check if that's the name.
But we pass a user.
So let me go to the server for a second
and this is the login verification.
At the end, we are passing a user, okay?
With name and email that is
coming from the database after
we logged in the user with a face or
a USB key or whatever.
So that should be fine and
if not, something has happened.
So we are going to alert
with verification Message.
What could be wrong?
Well, someone can be
hijacking the webAuthn API or
the data coming from the API.
Or maybe you're in a different device,
so your face is not the one register or
for example I have here I register
something with my MAC and
it's not actually available in the iPad
even if it's the same account.
But pass keys, they have a difference.
And we will mention that in a minute.
But pass keys is like one step over this.
So pass keys are actually
shared between devices.
They are stored in the iCloud.
Okay, so I think that's okay,
let's see now.
So if I try to log in again,
now I can log in with other competition.
Look at that, I didn't press continue,
it worked automatically and
now I have the login with WebAuthn link.
If I click here I'm receiving okay,
it seems like there are some
passkeys available for this.
I'm not sure which one is the one
that I use actually for localhost.
So let's try that one.
Maybe it's not and
if it's not I will get an error.
Authenticator is not
registered with that site.
That wasn't the one.
And by the way, it seems like it's,
can you see that?
So the event.preventDefault didn't work.
So let's see why from my html.
event, I didn't curl preventDefault.
That's why it didn't execute the function.
That's why the router changes the page.
So try again, let's see if I
can find the one that I need.
We refresh, m@m, login.
Maybe Max.
I don't know, if not I would create a new
one but I can create more than one.
Yep, I'm logged in with Touch ID,
so it worked.
Now, go into Chrome.
On Chrome, I can use the USB key.
But it was for my Gmail, I think.
I registered that for my Gmail.
So continue.
I don't have a password, look at that.
No password, why?
Because this account was federated,
so I don't have a password.
So I can log in only with Google Or
with webAuthn.
So if I click here,
I can use my finger, okay?
Or I can go to other options and
select USB key.
And here it says, there are two.
That's because it's localhost and
it seems like you have more than one.
And it was that one and I'm logged in now.
So it's working.
I can try now this on my iOS simulator.
Localhost.5050, so I can log in.
m@m, I think I have another,
I can register a new account.
Let's get a new one.
My name is iPhone.
And it's iphone@mac.com and
password, whatever.
Let's say, TimCook.
Register account, I mean,
I'm going to authenticator.
So the only passkey, yes.
Face ID, matching face.
You can now log in.
Okay, cool, iphone@mac.
So let me log out.
So now iphone@mac.com.
I think I have, look at that,
I have capital I.
And in fact, that's something that we
should improve for user experience.
Lowercase and
trim my email addresses because an auto
competition can actually change.
You don't see that but let me, zoom in.
It tried with Iphone with capital I and
of course,
it's not the same in the string.
So there we are.
Because let me see what's going on.
Let's try again.
iPhone, by the way I can disable that
also with a HTML Property.
All right, let me write it correctly now.
Well I would change it there.
iphone@mac.com.
I don't know why it's forcing me.
You can also turn on the keyboard,
that one instead of using your Mac.
I think it's my Mac keyboard that's for
some reason is doing that
uppercase I don't know why.
Okay, so now it's giving me webAuthn.
So if I try to login, also I have two,
I think it's iPhone or
I don't know which one it is.
Well I can try.
That's because on this simulator,
I try another example, continue, sorry.
Now matching face and maybe that one, yep.
Ang log in with Face ID.
Do you have any question?
You have a happy face.
That's a happy face.
>> This is freaking rad.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Yeah, that's really cool.
>> So I know that this last part was
more complicated to follow because
webAuthn is complicated to follow.
But after you implemented that,
it starts to make sense, the process.
Now, let me show you something else
that is interesting is that if
you're using Chrome, Chrome is
offers us also a webAuthn emulator.
So instead of actually using a real
USB key or using my real finger,
I can simulate this, how?
Well, Chrome dev tools,
let me put this in fullscreen.
Chrome DevTools have something
known as the console drawer.
Not sure if you have seen these before,
the console drawer.
Is when you press escape
it appears a new menu.
And let me close everything here.
And this,
the console drawer also has tabs but
the tabs are closed by default.
So if you go to them that menu,
not that one, not that one, okay?
This one, the one from the console drawer,
you have a lot of options.
And one is webAuthn.
If you open that, you can enable
a virtual authenticator environment.
So if you do that,
let me remove the ones that I have.
I can create a new virtual authenticator.
So it's like an emulator that generates
the keys and everything but virtually.
Then I can delete that and
everything is gone.
You also need to delete that server side
because if not you will keep private
keys that you will never use again.
So here I can select the internally
which technologies do
you wanna provide internal.
So in this case,
again it's not going to be internal or
nfc, is how this is going to
be announced to our server.
If it support user verification blah,
blah, blah I say add.
And now it's active.
So if you try to create the credential, so
if you try to add a new authenticator
actually like this, okay?
It will use that one instead of
whatever you pick here, okay?
That's kind of the idea.
You can see here, it creates the ID, the
handle but everything is virtual, okay?
So it's actually not being
saved in your real Chrome.
That's kind of the deal.
So it's an emulator for
web authentication credentials.